feat: Konnect Search Improvements (M1&M2) (#6655)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/reference/search.md

---

> title: Konnect Search

Author: @lena-larionova @Guaris Hi! I moved this Search page from the API section to the reference section. Do you think it makes sense here, or would it be better in another section?

content_type: reference
description: Learn how to use the Konnect Search to search through all Konnect entities.
---

The {{site.konnect_short_name}} Search feature allows you to perform simple and advanced searches across all {{site.konnect_short_name}} entities within an organization. You can access search using the search bar (_command+k_) at the top of every page in {{site.konnect_short_name}} or using the [{{site.konnect_short_name}} Search API](/konnect/api/search/latest/).

The {{site.konnect_short_name}} Search API is available in global and regional locations with regional-awareness, ensuring that returned entities are relevant to their geographical location. 

Here are a few example use cases where you can use the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Search API in your automation: <!--I'm not sure, based on the examples, how you use the API for this and not just advanced search. these don't seem like automation use cases-->

| You want to... | Then use... |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| Find entities that are "not compliant" | You can use search to find all routes that don't have a path that starts with `/api` |

> | Select from a list of available entities | For example, if you are attaching a route to a service, you can use search to find and identify which service to attach the route to. Or when you're adding members to a team, you can search for the user. |

Author: @haydenlam I put these use cases in a table, similar to what we have for https://docs.konghq.com/konnect/analytics/#analyze-api-usage-and-performance-data. One question I have (and I think I wrote the original text, so it's probably my misunderstanding) is I'm not sure, based on the examples, how you use the API for this and not just advanced search. These seem like use cases for search, just not API automation use cases.

> Here are a few example use cases where you can use the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Search API in your automation: <!--I'm not sure, based on the examples, how you use the API for this and not just advanced search. these don't seem like automation use cases-->
> 
> | You want to... | Then use... |
> | -------------- | ----------- |
> | Find entities that are "not compliant" | You can use search to find all routes that don't have a path that starts with `/api` |
> | Select from a list of available entities | For example, if you are attaching a route to a service, you can use search to find and identify which service to attach the route to. Or when you're adding members to a team, you can search for the user. |

Author: ```suggestion
Here are a few example use cases where you can use the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Search capabilities:

| You want to... | Then use... |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| Find entities that are "not compliant" | You can use search to find all entities that don't comply with your rules, such as all routes that don't have a path that starts with `/api` |
| Select from a list of available entities | For example, if you are attaching a route to a service, you can use search to find and identify which service to attach the route to. Or when you're adding members to a team, you can search for the user. |
```

## Query Syntax

The {{site.konnect_short_name}} Search API provides selectors, reserved characters, and logical operators that you can use to narrow your entity search. By combining these selectors, reserved characters, and logical operators, you can construct complex and precise queries to effectively use the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Search API.

To perform a simple search, you can just search by the name of an entity, like a service, API product, or name of a team. You can also perform an advanced search using {{site.konnect_short_name}}'s query syntax to get more granular results.

The following is an example advanced search query syntax:

```

> type:team AND NOT label.department:eng AND name:*_qa

Author: @haydenlam I moved this query syntax section up and added a bit about an example query to explain how to formulate one. Does this work?

```

> The following provides more details about the different components of the query syntax:

Author: ```suggestion
The following provides more details about the different components of the query syntax in the example:
```

* Logical operator: `AND NOT` and `AND`. These are used to combine multiple criteria in a query.
* Wildcard: `*`
* Search values: `eng` and `_qa`. These values aren't set and can vary. They determine what you search for, such as the name of an API product or service that is unique to your environment.

### Entity types

The following {{site.konnect_short_name}} entity types are supported: 

- `api_product`  
- `api_product_version`  
- `application`  
- `ca_certificate`  
- `certificate`  
- `consumer`  
- `consumer_group`  
- `control_plane`  
- `control_plane`  
- `data_plane`  
- `developer`  
- `developer_team`  
- `key`  
- `key_set`   
- `mesh`  
- `mesh_control_plane`  
- `plugin`  
- `portal`  
- `report`  
- `route`  
- `service`  
- `sni`  
- `system_account`  
- `target`  
- `team`  
- `upstream`  
- `user`  
- `vault`  
- `zone`  

Additional entities may be added in future releases. You can view a list of all the supported entities by sending the following API request:

```bash
curl -X 'GET' \
  'https://global.api.konghq.com/v1/search/types' \
  -H 'accept: application/json'
```

#### Searchable attributes

> For each entity type, there is a list of entity specific attributes that are searchable. These attributes are returned in the attributes object in the search response while the schema of the searchable attributes can be found in the types endpoint. <!-- I'm guessing this specifies stuff like "department" in the example, but I wasn't finding this listed by the types endpoint. Also, can you search by a certain entity? Like "user"?-->

Author: @haydenlam I'm guessing this (searchable attributes) specifies stuff like "department" in the example, but I wasn't finding this listed by the types endpoint. Also, can you search by a certain entity? Like "user"?

Reviewer: Yes, you can search by entity type such as "user". The attribute "department" does not exist, but is a use case for tagging and labeling. So if users label their entities with department metadata, it can be searchable that way. I'll update the example with something more concrete.

> For each entity type, there is a list of entity specific attributes that are searchable. These attributes are returned in the attributes object in the search response while the schema of the searchable attributes can be found in the types endpoint. <!-- I'm guessing this specifies stuff like "department" in the example, but I wasn't finding this listed by the types endpoint. Also, can you search by a certain entity? Like "user"?-->

Author: ```suggestion
For each entity type, there is a list of entity specific attributes that are searchable. These attributes are returned in the attributes object in the search response while the schema of the searchable attributes can be found in the `/types` endpoint.
```
And then add the link to the schema about the /types endpoint so users can get more info there
